Cape Town (Afrikaans: Kaapstad, Xhosa: iKapa) is the second most populous city in South Africa. The capital of Western Cape Province, it is also the legislative capital of the nation. Cape Town is on South Africa's southwestern coast close to the Cape of Good Hope, and is the southernmost city on the African continent. It is the gateway to the globally renowned Cape Winelands which includes the towns of Franschhoek, Stellenbosch and Paarl. 

 Cape Town is nicknamed the Mother City within South Africa. Compared to the more business oriented Johannesburg it is known for its relaxed and leisurely atmosphere. Compared to other parts of South Africa, Cape Town is also distinctly more "western".

 The metropolis of Cape Town is spread over a wide area, from Somerset West and Durbanville in the east to Atlantis in the north and Cape Point in the south. The city centre is situated in a fairly small area between Table Bay and Table Mountain. 

The original Dutch settlement, and the heart of the current city, is southwest of Strand St, "Beach street" in Afrikaans, since it followed the original waterfront during the 17th century. Since then, centuries of landfills have successively moved the shoreline some 1,200 m (3,900 ft) northeast to its current position. The old city centre is intersected by avenues like Long St, St Georges Mall and Adderley St, and is approximately bounded by the Company Gardens in the southwest, the Castle of Good Hope in the east, and the slopes of Signal Hill in the northwest. During the 19th century, these slopes were settled by Cape Town's Malay Muslim population, creating the area Bo-Kaap, which translates into "Above the Cape" or "Upper Cape". 

Before the European colonial era what is now the Western Cape was inhabited by Khoikhoi and San groups, whom the Dutch called "Hottentots", "Strandlopers" and "Bushmen" (terms that are now considered racist and offensive). From the late 15th century, European ships (primarily Portuguese) started to visit the area, firstly for fresh food and water, then later for whaling and trading with the locals. Cape Town's colonial history started in 1652, when founder Jan van Riebeeck established a trading post there for the Dutch East Indies Company (VOC), as a stopping point on the Cape Route. Even though South Africa is the part of Africa located furthest from Europe, it was the first, and up until the 19th century, only place which was substantially colonized by Europeans since the Roman Empire in North Africa. The reason is that the Cape, while being furthest from Europe, also is relatively far from the equator. The Europeans therefore found the climate temperate enough to grow European crops, and the Cape was in a strategically important position for intercontinental trade. 

The earliest European settlers were predominantly Dutch along with some Protestant Huguenots from northern France fleeing from being persecuted by the Catholics. These settlers over time explored the adjacent hinterland and founded the cities of Paarl and Stellenbosch in what is today the Cape Winelands. They were known as Voortrekkers ("Pioneers") when they ventured from the Cape region to explore, conquer and settle other parts of Southern Africa. The first people from Asia to arrive in Cape Town were the Malays from Java and other islands of the Dutch East Indies, brought in by the Dutch as slaves in 1654. Their descendants are today known as the Cape Malays. Soon the various ethnic groups intermingled leading to the emergence of the unique, mixed-race Cape Coloured community. 

Political control of Cape Town ping ponged between the Dutch and British during the late 18th and early 19th centuries until 1814 when it was ceded to the British. South Africa became a self-governing dominion of the British Empire (as the Union of South Africa) in 1910, and became a republic in 1961. 

Cape Town, as the seat of parliament, is South Africa's legislative capital. The city was ahead of its time as it developed into a global, multicultural metropolis much earlier than most other major cities of the world. Cape Town has many fascinating points of interest, a thriving nightlife, and a sizable LGBT presence.

 During the dry summer months, especially when the winds are strong, wildfires pose a grave threat to the animals and vegetation of the Cape region. In particular, the fynbos in the national parks can become very dry and burn rapidly. Wildfires are a serious concern, and previous fires have damaged the slopes of Table Mountain. If you notice any fires in the Cape area please report them to the Western Cape Umbrella Fire Protection Association on +27 21 6897438, or the after-hours emergency hotline on +27 21 9574700. 

The MyCiti rapid transit bus operates from 04:30 to 22:00 between the airport and the centre of Cape Town with connections to the Atlantic coastal suburbs and to the MetroRail[dead link] commuter train service. Buy tickets from the kiosk attached to the dedicated MyCiti bus shelter, outside the airport terminal.

 There are people in the Official Airport Taxi vests waiting as you exit the customs. They are not official, and they are more expensive than a taxi requested via an app. They are unmetered, so if you choose to use them, make sure to ask for the rate before you get in the car, otherwise you risk paying considerably more than the fair price. (An Uber costs only R150 from the airport to the city centre). 

There are several daily direct flights to Johannesburg, Durban and all other major South African cities, as well as Windhoek and Walvis Bay in Namibia, and Gaborone and Maun in Botswana.

 The main airlines locally and internationally as of 2022 are South African Airways (albeit with a diminshed network), Airlink (now the largest regional airline), and FlySafair. 

International airlines operating routes to Cape Town include: 

South African Airways no longer operates inter-continental routes. 

From October to March, many charter airlines fly directly from all across Europe to Cape Town. Many airlines sell spare seats at discounted rates though during the summer holiday period prices rise significantly. For further information see Discount airlines in Africa.

 Travel by train should be approached with some caution and research. It is advised to consult with locals on whether the line you intend to use is operating and considered safe. All scheduled South African passenger trains are run by PRASA (the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa), which has different divisions for long distance (intercity) trains and commuter (suburban) trains. Shosholoza Meyl operates intercity trains and MetroRail commuter trains in major cities. Shosholoza Meyl has three classes of intercity trains: Economy Class, Tourist Class and Premier Classe. In economy class there are seats only (no bunk beds). Tourist class provides bunk beds for overnight trips (bring a sleeping bed or buy bedding on the train). Premier class is luxurious and comfortable, providing all necessary bedding and meals. The economy and tourist class trains have a buffet car for food. Prices on the three classes vary accordingly. 

There are intercity trains from: 

 MetroRail has two classes on commuter trains in and around Cape Town: MetroPlus (also called First Class) and Metro (called Third Class). MetroPlus is more comfortable and less crowded but also more expensive. Every trainset has MetroPlus and Metro coaches; the MetroPlus coaches are always on the end of the train nearest Cape Town. The tickets are cheap so it is better to be more comfortable and use MetroPlus. There are steep fines if you are caught in a MetroPlus coach with a Metro ticket (but vice versa is allowed). 

 MetroRail commuter trains are a great way to travel between Cape Town and neighbouring towns such as Stellenbosch, Strand, Paarl, Somerset West, Malmesbury, Worcester and through the Southern Suburbs (Claremont, Wynberg, Retreat) or to the beaches at Muizenberg, Kalk Bay, Fish Hoek, Glencairn and Simon's Town. Contrary to popular opinion, MetroRail trains are safe, but it is wise to avoid travelling during the night if possible. If you need to use trains during the night, go on the most crowded first-class (MetroPlus) car and try to travel with a companion. 

MetroRail is rather difficult to navigate for an unprepared tourist. As of January 2023, the timetables at the Cape Town station do not work, and staff may give you inaccurate information on the train times, varying from 10 minutes before to 5 minutes after the actual departure time. There are several official websites, none of which have any authoritative information on the service. There are also several unofficial websites/apps with outdated or unreliable information. The operator's website appears to have accurate. Ticket offices at the Cape Town station only accept cash.

 The train line from Cape Town to Simon's Town is fantastic. From Muizenberg south to Simon's Town, the line runs right next to the sea. You can often see whales, and if it is windy you may have sea spray hitting the train windows. For the best views make sure you sit on the east side of the train (the left side as you face away from Cape Town and towards Simon's Town). You can buy a Tourist "hop on, hop off" ticket for the Cape Town to Simon's Town route that allows you to get on and off any train for the entire day. As of January 2023, there's no direct train between Cape Town and Simon's Town. You have to change at Fish Hoek, and the train schedules are not aligned, so this change may take up to an hour. 

Trains to Stellenbosch run about every two hours or so, but this journey takes a long time. Ask at the ticket counter if there is an earlier train you could hop on, since there are also trains to Stellenbosch starting from Bellville and Eerste River. 

Most roads in Cape Town and its surroundings are in excellent condition, which makes getting around in a car a straightforward task. However, there is a risk of getting carjacked when it is dark or while you stop at the traffic lights. It is not quite as dangerous as the media will make you believe, but you should take care. Ask the staff in your hotel or anyone who knows the city well about the safe and unsafe areas of Cape Town. Check the route that you intend to take and avoid unnecessary detours off the highways into areas with which you are not familiar. 

Many major highways begin in Cape Town: 

Car rental in South Africa is more affordable than most Western nations. Petrol is cheaper than much of Europe too but is slightly more pricey than the USA. Local residents will say that the drivers in Cape Town are among the politest in the country and normally drive slower than drivers in other South African cities. 

Every major bus company has intercity connections to Cape Town, taking you there from other areas in South Africa and from Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe. Every day up to six buses run from particular cities. 

Baileys Reo Liner has a bus to Cape Town from Namibia three times a week: on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Munenzwal Luxury Coaches and Chihwa bus lines have buses to Cape Town from Zimbabwe three times a week. 

The starting point for the buses is the bus station next to the main train station near the Golden Acre building. 

Bus tickets can also be obtained from Computicket[dead link].

 Most of the larger cruise lines, such as Princess Cruises, offer Cape Town as one of their destinations, but you can also try something different: 

Cape Town is not the most pedestrian-friendly city in the world. There are areas that are ideal for walking, such as the St George's Mall and Greenmarket Square areas in the city centre, the V&A Waterfront or some beach areas. 

Care needs to be taken when walking in other parts of the city, as the roads can be busy, and having pedestrian right of way does not necessarily mean that vehicles will cede to you. Pedestrians normally cross when the road is clear, regardless of red pedestrian lights. 

Outside of a few areas, there is very little pedestrian signage. 

It is possible to get around by bicycle. There are some bike lanes in the center. More information about cycling in and near the city. 

Many car hire companies are based in the airport as well being found all over town. Note that South Africa is a left-hand traffic country. Visitors from countries where traffic moves on the right-hand side may need to take some time to get familiar with the different road rules. Getting a car with automatic transmission at some rental services is not always easy so try to reserve a car in advance if you prefer an automatic.

 Cape Town has some of the worst traffic jams in South Africa. During peak-hours traffic can grind to a total stand-still. Use an app like Waze or Google Maps to guide you around the worst spots. 

All fuel stations accept international credit and debit cards using chip and PIN. US and other card holders not yet converted to chip cards may find their cards not accepted. 

When you refuel your car you need to let the station attendants do it for you. You can just stay inside your car and they will ask you which type and how much fuel you want to put in your car. They will probably also wash your windscreen for you whether you need it or not, and it is also common to ask petrol attendants to check tyres and oil. In return a small tip is appreciated (around R5 is common) so it is advisable to collect a few of the low denomination coins you will receive elsewhere during your trip as change. 

Cape Town has several luxury chauffeur companies that do a variety of services including transfer to and from the airport, taking you to exclusive events and becoming VIP bodyguards. 

Metered taxis are controlled by the city council and can be considered safe and reliable. The price per kilometer is around R8-R10 and can often be read at the taxis side door. You can also set a fixed price with the driver, especially when going to a far away destination such as the airport which is about 21 km from city center and the fare can be bargained down to R150.

 There is only one official taxi company at the airport: Touchdown Taxis and to avoid the touts walk through the terminal until you find their specific desk. You can also ask your hotel to pick you up, as pick up service are provided by many hotels, guest houses and so on. 

Elsewhere look for the specific taxi ranks which usually have a marshall who will ask where you want to go and then instruct one of the taxis for you - always ask up front how much and they will either indicate that it is on the meter or advise a fixed amount on which you can haggle. Compared with European and American prices they are cheap even if you also include a tip. 

Ride hailing services are widely available across Cape Town, in particular Uber and Bolt. Bolt's prices are comparable to Uber's, but they pay their drivers slightly more. 

Minibus taxis are used widely by locals but tourists are usually discouraged from using them, except for the Green Point - Sea Point - Clifton - Camps Bay route that is frequently used by tourists. They cover most of the Cape Town Metropolitan Area and are very cheap, however they can become very crowded and are definitely less safe than metered taxis due to their dangerous driver behavior.

 Some minibus taxi operators have noticed the upsurge in the tourist market and are starting to provide safe and legal alternatives to the traditional minibus taxis. They are more expensive than traditional minibus taxis, but still far cheaper than metered taxis. No guarantee you'll get to your destination directly, but it is safe, fun, and all the drivers are characters. You may even meet supermodels going to their photo shoots or artists going to their studios, though statistically this is extremely unlikely. During the busy season you may have to wait a while and unfortunately, they do not take reservations. 

An international standard rapid transit service in Cape Town, known as MyCiTi, runs from Cape Town Airport to the Cape Town CBD (City Bowl) and the Atlantic coastal suburbs. 

There are a number of motorbike and scooter hire services throughout Cape Town. Motorbikes and scooters are agile forms of transportation and will save you some coin compared to renting a car. However, unless you enjoy cycling on very mountainous terrain, tiny alleys and roads with high levels of traffic, it is not advisable to ride a bicycle to get around.

 Cape Town has a commuter rail system called Metrorail[dead link], though it is the locals that primarily use it. They have put in a lot of work to improve comfort and safety on the trains though it doesn't match up with the best in the world. As such, it is advisable to go on first-class (MetroPlus). Cape Town's main station is located in the city centre on the corner of Strand and Adderley Street. The suburban network of lines is fairly good with over 120 stations. You can go on a picturesque ride to Simon's Town along the Cape Peninsula's east coast. Stay on the Simon's Town line and plan your itinerary so that you stop using the train after 18:30 or any time after it becomes dark.

 Try to avoid carrying valuables during your train ride as they will be magnet for thieves. If it is necessary to bring a camera, stick to one that is small in size and well hidden. Wearing any type of jewellery visible to others is not a good idea as it can be snatched or ripped off you by a cunning thief. For your safety remember to always stay alert. 

The easiest way to get an overview on things to do, nice restaurants, clubs, tours etc. is to walk into one of the visitors centres which are in several areas (V&A Waterfront, City Bowl, Green Point, etc.) 

Cape Town is at the meeting spot of the Atlantic and the Indian Ocean. Because of the Benguela Current the Atlantic Ocean is relatively cold (about 8°C to 14°C). The Indian Ocean is warmer (12°C to 17°C), and here you can see more colourful fish. The official border between the two oceans is at Cape Agulhas, but currents and eddies take the warmer water further west and these waters can reach the eastern side of the Cape Peninsula in False Bay, so from a diving point of view, the Cape Peninsula may be considered the interface between the two marine biological regions, and there is a notable difference in character between the waters of the two coasts of the peninsula. This manifests itself in the different range of marine life found on the two coasts. These regions are the South Western Cape inshore bioregion to the west of Cape Point, and the Agulhas inshore bioregion to the east of Cape Point.

 Permits: The waters around the Cape Peninsula have been declared a Marine Protected Area (MPA). Permits are required to Scuba dive in any Marine Protected Area. This is a politically controversial issue due to disputes on whether due process was followed and whether the government department exceeded its authority, but the consequence is that a tax is imposed on all Scuba divers who dive in an MPA. The permit (valid for 1 year) may be purchased for R75 (2009) at a some branches of the Post Office, or a temporary permit valid for 1 month may be purchased at most dive shops. 

Failure to present this permit when requested by an official of MCM may lead to harassment and possible arrest. 

Dive sites: Detailed information and suggestions on local conditions, service providers and more than 250 local dive sites is provided in the guide to Diving the Cape Peninsula and False Bay.

 If the open ocean does not appeal to you, the Two Oceans Aquarium also offer diving opportunities in their 2.2 million-litre tank.

 There are many organized events in Cape Town throughout the year. An official calendar of events is available from Cape Town Tourism. 

Big Five Cape Town safaris are becoming increasingly popular. There are many safari game reserves with in 2 hours drive from Cape Town which is a great option if you don’t want to venture too far from the city. 

There are many hiking trails in and around the city, from short walks to multi day hikes. 

The townships are the places where people were forced to live (based on race) under the apartheid regime. To some extent townships continue to retain their apartheid-era racial make-up, for a variety of reasons. Townships have also grown to cover far larger areas of land than in the apartheid days. This is a result of urbanization, especially over the past 10–15 years. Touring a township may seem strange, even inappropriate, but it is a good way to learn about South Africa's history, and the poverty that many people continue to live in. People in the townships are friendly and the children love visitors. Some townships however can be dangerous (see the warning on the South Africa page) so don't go alone unless you know what you're doing. The townships tours are safe. If you want to bring sweets or gifts for the children, it is best not to give it directly to them, but to give it to the tour guide who will distribute them later.

 Tours can be booked directly or through one of Cape Town's many booking agencies. Tours run once or twice per day. Be aware that if you're given the chance to try some township food, that a 'walkie-talkie' is often made from the feet and beaks of poultry. The very best way to see a township is by foot and to stay overnight at one of the many township B&Bs. 

There are several tour companies which offer tours. 

There are a number of small nature reserves in and around Cape Town. 

Cape Town has some of the world's best wine producing vineyards and maybe the world's most scenically stunning on its doorstep. The wine regions of Stellenbosch, Franschhoek and Paarl are all with in an easy hours drive, these historic and lush regions offer stunning views and world class wine tastings. You can self-drive but this come with limitations, often the best farms are closed to the public and then there is the drinking and driving issue. The best value and safest way to see the winelands is to trust your day to a dedicated wine tour company.

 With South African wines becoming more and more popular worldwide, the number of tourists who visit Cape Town to learn more about the local wines is growing. The impressive variety of vineyards in Cape Town and the surrounding Cape Winelands make the choice which one to visit and which wine to taste very difficult. It is always a good idea to rely on one of the established wine tour operators. Guests should insist on a specialised guide with a thorough knowledge of South African wines.

 Mostly you will see Southern right whales, but on occasion you might also spot humpback and killer whales. Bottlenose and dusky dolphins also frequent False Bay. The Southern Right whales visit each year between June & November to mate and calve.

 From viewpoints next to the coastal road between Fish Hoek- Sunny Cove railway station through Glen Cairn to Simon's Town one can often spot whales less than 100 m from shore. At Cape Point whales can often be seen passing below. 

A number of operators also offer Whale Watching Cruises. 

Cape Town's medical research is world-renowned, and Groote Schuur hospital is where Christiaan Barnard and Hamilton Naki performed the world's first heart transplant. 

There are several language schools in the greater Cape Town area. Schools provide a very rigorous schedule of intense study (typically 20 lessons per week or more). Shop around before you make your choice. Choose a school which is part of accreditation associations like IALC (International Association of Language Centres) or other certificate that ensure quality. 

Cape Town is an excellent place to learn to sail, with courses completed here recognized internationally and costs far lower than what you can expect to pay in more developed countries.

 Also check out nearby towns such as Hout Bay 

Cape Town is a hub for all forms of dancing, from African dance to ballroom & Latin American to modern dancing, ballet and swing. There is a school of dance at the University of Cape Town, where you can obtain an international dance qualification at a relatively affordable price. 

The V&A Waterfront is the prime tourist destination for souvenirs, though these tend to be typically touristy (i.e. expensive and not necessarily authentic). More authentic curios for better prices can be found every Sunday at the Green Point market outside the Green Point  Stadium on Sundays, in walking distance from the V&A Waterfront. Many of these same curios can be purchased during the week in the several multi-story shops at the lower end of Long Street. For the real deal with authentic artifacts complete with provenance and ethnographic background, go to Church Street where there are a couple of shops but be prepared for sticker shock. When buying African Curio, the price at open markets are almost always very negotiable and seldom does the item have a price sticker attached. People with foreign accents are often quoted twice to three times the price they sell to locals, so do negotiate. 

If you like South African wine, buy it here (or anywhere in South Africa) before you leave, because it is much cheaper and there is more availability than overseas. Top guide to wines is the John Platter's Guide, with a few others around too, and with thousands of wines available from the region, you will need a guide (see below for shops that have knowledgeable staff). Read Wine magazine (or the iconoclastic Grape) for the latest information.

 Distinctively Capetonian in character—are everywhere, from chickens made of plastic bags to bead and wire work to pottery, glass and embroidery. If you don't buy a chicken from a Rastafarian at a street corner (the authentic experience—about R30 depending on the size), then try Heartworks (Kloof Street or in Gardens Centre mall) or the Red Shed at the V&A Waterfront. There is also a high-end craft boutique in the Cape Quarter in De Waterkant. 

Contemporary South African art has been riding a big wave in the international art world. It is on par with the best in the world and undervalued (unless you buy a William Kentridge). If you like real art as opposed to curios, crafts or posters, and you have the budget for it, there are several serious galleries in town. Try Michael Stevenson Gallery first, then Joao Ferreira Gallery, AVA Gallery or Bell-Roberts Gallery, and there are several others worth seeing. Artvark in Kalkbay is a treasure trove of modern local art at a variety of price points. Art South Africa is the art magazine to read if you want to know about the artists, and the adverts list the shows and the galleries.

 As in any large city you will find a number of major shopping malls with the requisite department sized stores and chain labels: 

Food in Cape Town is generally of high quality. The wines are much celebrated, but the surrounding region is also a major fruit producer, and the Karoo lamb is widely regarded. Seafood caught locally is superlative, but ironically much of it goes internationally (e.g., tuna for sushi) because of the prices that can be achieved. Ask about the local linefish—yellowtail, cape salmon, kingklip, cod and others are great eating. Oysters in season are also exceptional, farmed and wild from Knysna or wild flown in from Namibia. 

As one of the main tourist spots is the V&A Waterfront, you will find a broad range of restaurants, but they are often crowded and expensive. The area around Kloof St has many cafés and restaurants, as well as Long Street (frequented by a multi-ethnic clientèle), while the trendy area of De Waterkant between Bo Kaap and Green Point above Somerset Road also boasts good food and a great vibe. Dine with supermodels and other beautiful people in Camps Bay, which has many hip eateries and nightspots overlooking the beach along Victoria Road. 

Farther afield, Hout Bay on the west side of the Cape Peninsula is very good for fresh crayfish (lobsters - they have become quite expensive, around R300, though). Kalk Bay on the east side of the peninsula offers a big variety of fresh fish, do check out The Brass Bell. The restaurants in nearby Simon's Town are also good. 

Do not neglect the Cape Winelands for food if you have a car. In Stellenbosch, Spier has several restaurants, including the fun, afro-chic Moyo, and many wine estates offer food of different types and quality. The village of Franschhoek is the culinary navel of the wine region, with Le Quartier Francais a perennial five-star winner, but only one of many excellent restaurants. In the Constantia Valley there are number of great restaurants including Pastis Brasserie, Wasabi, The River Cafe, La Colombe and the Constantia Uitsig Restaurant.

 Make sure you know what the price is before you order rare delicacies in restaurants as there have been a few rare but high-profile cases of heinous overcharging where the price is not on the menu, particularly for perlemoen (abalone) and crayfish (similar to lobster). 

Cape Town is a notably vegan and vegetarian friendly city. Most restaurants in Cape Town have some vegetarian item on the menu, meny of them also offering vegan options. Even those without vegan options on the menu are usually happy to serve something vegan if you ask the waiter. 

Naturally, Cape Town is a great place to sample the unique Cape Malay cuisine. There a few restaurants in Bo Kaap serving this cuisine; a must-try dish is bobotie, the signature dish of the community. 

Long Street, which can be easily reached from St. George's Cathedral and the Greenmarket Square, is famous for its bars, restaurants and clubs. This is the ideal place if you want to end the day with a drink. It is also one of the few truly multi-ethnic, multi-racial nightspots in the city. See the new South Africa, not just other tourists.

 You will have live entertainment (normally something like jazz or kwaito music) in many bars and sometimes you will have to pay to get in.

 Observatory or better known as Obz is just north of Rondebosch (Southern Suburbs). There are several student residences of the UCT and Obz main street (Lower Main Road) has a vibrant nightlife with restaurants, bar, pool halls and pubs. Almost daily there is something going on.

 A popular destination with locals is Camps Bay, which offers a vibrant night-life and many bars, restaurants and clubs.

 Accommodation in Cape Town ranges from hostels (of which there are many) to luxury accommodation. Actually, there are so many hotels, B&Bs and guest houses that it can be difficult to decide where to stay! 

Staying in the city centre often works out cheaper as all the attractions are nearby, but stick to one of the neighbourhoods next to the central area for better prices and a quieter night's sleep. The area around vibey Kloof Street in Gardens/Tamboerskloof with its young cafe culture and hip shopping is a good choice. You could consider sleeping in one of the suburbs. It is normally quieter and there is less traffic than in Central Cape Town. The suburbs in the south, like Muizenberg, Fish Hoek or Simon's Town, or near the winelands (see Cape Winelands) are ones to try. Areas along the western seaboard of the peninsula (such as Camps Bay) will be more expensive. 

Several township bed & breakfasts started to pop up in places such as Khayelitsha to offer tourists the chance to experience this side of South Africa. They mostly are redecorated shacks to fit the basic norms of tourists. 

Dorm beds under R500 

If you have a cell phone get one of the cheap prepaid sim cards from either Vodacom, MTN, Cell C or Telkom Mobile and save money on local calls. Vodacom and MTN have outlets at Cape Town airport, located near domestic arrivals. SIM cards cost the same as in town. 

Overseas calls at local rates via the Celldial service. Call 087 940 6966 and follow the voice prompts. See www.celldial.co.za for supported countries. 

Internet is available throughout Cape Town and the inner city cafes always a hub of activity. Charges per hour ranges from R5 (in town) to R50 (V&A waterfront) 

Internet cafes can be found all over the city and suburbs, with many coffee shops offering internet access.

 Many Guesthouses in Cape Town provide WiFi free for their guests. 

Coverage areas include:

 Cafe Neo, opposite the lighthouse in Mouille Point, offers an open hotspot in addition to their excellent Greek food. 

While Cape Town is not a dangerous place for tourists, South Africans are significantly more safety-conscious than people in most other parts of the world. While you should take some care as a tourist in any city, you should be more careful in South Africa than in many other places.

 A large number of outdoor CCTV cameras have been installed by the municipality. These stretch from the city bowl, the suburbs, the townships and all the way to the outlying areas of the metropole. New cameras are installed in additional areas quite regularly as needed. The cameras are monitored 24/7, and police and emergency services respond quite quickly to any detected incidents. 

Central Cape Town is generally safe to walk around by day, though you should not take valuables with you and should avoid dressing like a tourist. You may encounter beggars and con artists, but they will usually accept a "no". Avoid "dressing like a tourist", i.e. wearing an outfit involving cameras, backpacks, jewellery and golf hats. Leave valuables in the safe in your hotel room or with staff for safekeeping. (Do not leave anything valuable in your room outside of the safe, and do not leave anything in view of an open window. If you leave valuables out in your room you may find the hotel takes them into safekeeping and leaves you a note - this is to avoid their hotel getting a reputation as a place where thieves will find an easy target.) Stay on reasonably busy streets. 

After sundown, you should take a taxi or ride-hailing service to and from your destination, rather than walking. Have the driver meet you outside the bar or restaurant (take a taxi card with you if needed). If walking at all, make sure you stay on well-lit and crowded streets. Pickpockets, persistent beggars and petty theft is rife. 

If visiting a township, go with one or more people who live there or know it well. Official township tours are your safest bet; revealing a very interesting lifestyle to the more curious tourists. 

Foreigners should avoid hitchhiking or using local commuter and metro trains. Be aware of automated teller machine (ATM) con artists. Under no circumstances allow a stranger to assist you in your transactions. Should your card become stuck in the ATM, call the helpline number on display at the teller machine for assistance and to cancel your card. 

If driving in a car, smash-and-grab theft is a risk. Keep your doors locked, ensure your windows are wound up when you slow down (including at traffic lights) and keep an eye out for people approaching you. Keep valuables out of sight and locked away. If you are driving to or from the airport, plan your route and do not stop at unknown spots. The airport is surrounded by some very dangerous areas that should be avoided. 

Watch out for the mini bus taxis. They often drive like hell disobeying many traffic rules, and are entirely unregulated except by organised crime. Watch out for pickpocketing. 

Glue sniffing children and junkies are a minor problem, called 'strollers' by the locals: these ragamuffins will strip you bare if you do not stay alert.

 Respect the mountains - dress correctly as temperatures can fall very quickly. Go in a group of at least 4 people, as robberies sometimes occur and accidents can happen. There are also robberies along the footpaths in Table Mountain. In particular, walking alone should be avoided. 

0800055555-childline 

From Feb 2020 to September 2022, national electric power provider Eskom conducted power cuts on an almost daily basis. Depending on the location, electricity is cut off for 2½ hours per day or several times a day. Be energy-wise and switch off appliances that use a lot of power, when not in use. Your accommodation may or may not have a generator.

 Cape Town is perfectly placed for many one or two day trips, which offer a variety in experiencing fresh landscapes and cultures. 

Route 62 will take you inland to the Little Karoo for an authentic South African experience in the quaint farming towns of the Cape. 

Go up north along the West Coast to Saldanha Bay and all the other hidden spots. Further on are Namaqualand and finally Namibia.