Hi. My lovely has provided me with some new plants, which I am grabbing now, and I'm going to set them up in my little garden, and tomorrow I'll be replanting them. :) I've already been growing it for...maybe a couple of months now; maybe five, six months, which is some tomatoes. And now, I'm adding some new ones to it. So, here's the very cute basket I've been given, and this one, this beautiful one, is mint as I love having mint in my drinks. This one is Basil because I also love pesto, and I'm a fanatic about colors, so (my lovely) provided me a multicolored flowers- flowers set. This is my lovely tomato garden. We have our tomatoes already blooming, coming in. I've already picked a lot. Here is my roma tomatoes. You can see the tag back there, and these beautiful, beautiful tomatoes. This one I picked as it’s quite red already. So, today I just collected four. This one I took off, it wasn't ready to come off, but it was looking a bit pale. I also have potatoes growing. They're not going to be ready until all of these die, and then, we’ll know, the potatoes are ready. Hello~! This is two days since that previous clip, and this is all my tomatoes and I found some buggies eating some of the tomatoes, but, it's okay. Aww~, hello handsome, hello. Hi. Today is a beautiful day where it's actually sunny. Look. Yay! So, today we are finally going to be transferring our vegetables over. I’ve brought my basket. As you can see. Yeah, I'm going to pick up my plants and some tomatoes. Do you see that? That, my friends, is a beautiful tomato. Are you ready? I’ve deemed it ready. It's quite a nice red color, actually. Wow. Look at that. Size of my hand. That's amazing. That is amazing. I moved the leaves of this one because, as you can see, it's been not getting any sunlight. So, I think it's been taking a bit of a hit. They are all just slightly orange, orange-y red. So, I might leave them just the rest of today. It’s sort of like treasure hunting except it’s in a, in a giant bush. Just me and my plant babies going off to new homes. Hi. I hope you can hear me, but, I've set up a little station for repotting. I'm going to be over there. I’ve also changed clothes because I couldn't find a better table than this bad boy. So, I've got my basil, pesto (mint*), celosia, succulent, strawberries, and marigold. Ace! What do you thing you are doing bubba? Touch my, my thing. :( I don’t, I’m only a beginner gardener. So, I actually don’t know what I'm really supposed to be doing outside of what I've been told, but! I know I have these strawberries. Lovely lady. That needs to be repotted. So, you choose a pot that's slightly bigger because you don't want them to feel overwhelmed... like me. :D So, I’ve got a few pots here we can use. Never mind, there's a bunch of ants on it. Okay, we can use the top one. Top one is not a home. Lovely. This one, I believe, is slightly bigger. Yes. Our whole pot can go in very nicely. Hehe, Acey. <3 Ace: Hmm. I’ve got my puppies out with me. Ace: Hmmm. Yes, we’re talking about you. Good old, good old fashioned gardening. That looks about enough. That's about right, I think. I actually have no idea if I'm doing this correctly. I'm just going based off what I've been told over the last, what, six months I’ve been growing things. So, all the best, hopefully. Let’s get this baby out. Yeah. So, you can see all the roots have very much around the sides- and if i know anything probably means they need more room to grow. So, let me get some of this soil. We are just going to break up the roots a little bit. I feel like I need to break them up slightly. Just like shimmy it around. Just so the roots feel a bit like more exposed and not compact. I think that's how it's done. I could be killing this plant and I feel horrible for doing that. This is a strawberry plant. I got her from my work... which is shutting down, so, it was good opportunity. Fill up around it, I think. Would make sense, there's no dirt there, ‘cause it was in a smaller pot. Hello bubba! I’m replanting. This is Lady., she's our little angry, beautiful baby. Now that we’ve got it in, so, we (can) make it a little bit more compact, but we still want it to be airy because we want water to go through. This is why I did it today, before I watered them and everything and it's not rainy. I can water them now. Now, all the soil would go- I don't know how it works, but you’re supposed to water them afterwards. I guess so the soil sort of melds. I think that's right. Anyway, oop, it's slightly off center. That's okay. But, that one is our strawberry plant repotted. Okay, and now I'm going to do the rest of these ones. As you'll see shortly. So, I've been informed. I have to separate all these little boys. How many we got? One, two, three, four, five, six- twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four?! That can't be right. I don't believe that for a second. Maybe- it looks like that bunch in the back over here, next to the- oh- yeah, over there. That might be one. This is definitely six, though, which is nice. Unless it’s not six, is that three? I don't know, but I’ve got to separate all of them?! God damn, I'm going to have a little farm, but it's sort of okay, ‘cause I got all these little pots, but do I need smaller pots? I don’t know if I have smaller pots. These are like the smallest pots I have. We’re going to see my little Lady. Hello, Lady. The smallest pots- yeah, and that- like, compared to that you can see they’re quite small. My tomato could fit in one of these. Let me get one out. Okay. This is (not) going to work. Look at it! It’s so tiny. It’s a little baby. <3 I don’t know, I feel like it's too big. Mint I can probably just put in- ooh, is that too big as well? Slightly bigger, but I think we need even bigger than that. So, I need to go one up for the mint. We have repotted our mint from this one to this one, And my baby fell over. Why? After you finish repotting you got to water them. There you go. Now, they probably feel better because the sun is pretty hot today. These one has got all these brown spots, I hope it's not that black spot thing I had on my rose plant. I don't know. Maybe I need to go in deeper as well. Okay. It's half an hour later. So, I don't have to separate them or the individual little stalks if they’re too close together. But I still got to separate the majority of them. Not sure how this one's going to go. I'm going to do my best. This one I don't need to repot I’ve learned. However, I did some emergency restoration for this baby. I’ll try and find a picture of him somewhere, but see its base, it's a little bit covered up. I don't know if I did this properly, but he wasn't happy. He was leaning all the way onto one side in this clay pot. So, this is probably my brothers or someone’s, but the problem is they never repotted him or otherwise. Why is that a problem? Because there was silicone (styrofoam*) that it had wrapped all of its roots around. The roots were very strong, so I’m surprised it’s even alive, but it had a baby as well, which I've just tried to put in there, but I don't think I'll live. Look at all this stuff. It was just all clawing around. So, I just did a full out get rid of all the dirt, basically. And I threw him in here and hopefully he’ll live. Side note, you can see how much it covered it. Literally half of the thing was just silicon (styrofoam*) on the bottom. -apart like this. They’re very easy to. So, they haven't- well it’s a low pot, so, I don't expect the roots to be very strong but they're flowering so beautifully, which is amazing. Yay. You can see all six of them and then I'm going to make them all perfect. With the click of my fingers, in a second. There’s that and then with my thing. Omae mou shindeiru- Ta-dah! Okay, so that’s all done. I made a wet- mess- a weste. I watered them because they're very delicate, because their roots are really small. This one, we're going to have to watch keeps falling over. I don't know if I didn't plant it deep enough, I’ll get some consensus, but it looks so lovely. Now, to do the exact same to this one, which I'm not looking to. So, I will do that. I'll just give it a good ol’ shot. This one doesn't spread like the mint through the ground, so, it should be fine. Look at that. Oh my gosh. This poor baby. I don’t have a trowel though. Hopefully, I’m able to just- I don't even know. It's so full. Maybe I’ll just try and rip it apart. Plus they’re overwhelmed so. Look at that. That's clearly too much. You can see all of them now, and, all of this is going to be completed as well. There’s also a chicken. Just prelu- pr-prowling? Pre-luing? Prowsing, the overgrown garden space. [Humming *Jaws* theme] Look at all this soil we’ve used, you’ve got to go in. That's like, there we go, half the bucket maybe? Maybe? Look at it, god damn. Hi! I hope you enjoyed the video. I was hoping to have the plants in a place before I filmed the conclusion, but I can't find anywhere, but I do have an update on what they look like, and they're all thriving really well. As you can see. Well, the basil is fine if looking a bit unwatered, which is my fault because it keeps raining and then not raining. The celosias are good. One of them's fallen over, and the mint is just minting. So, I'm glad that repotting them hasn't killed any of them. Anyway, thank you so much for watching. I hope you enjoyed my first video, I suppose, and if you did like it, feel free to give it a like, a thumbs up, and subscribe. Thank you. Bye. See you next time.