(soft upbeat music) - Good morning everyone, welcome back to another vlog. We are starting in the car again. I think this is the first time I've talked today. Actually, I said bye to Drew, so that's not true. But I am in the car right now on my way back to Orange County, which is I think where you saw me in the last vlog maybe when I went to Laguna to see Sierra. But I'm actually headed to Santa Ana this morning to go to the Goodwill bins with Alexa and Karina. I haven't been to these bins since probably like December of 2019 I wanna say, so it's been a few years and I'm excited. Usually you can find really good stuff and we're gonna be filming thrifting videos, so that'll be really fun. This lighting is great. Ideal, honestly. It is about 7:20 in the morning, so it is very, very early, but we wanna make sure we get there with enough time. And then also later today, Alexa and I are having a FaceTime with Jasmin, so we're gonna catch up with her, so that'll be fun. While we're together, we figured that would make the most sense. So yeah, that is - oh my god. It is so windy in LA it's actually kind of scaring me. Last night I thought I heard someone outside my front door rustling in a bag or, I don't know, trying to do something, and it was just leaves. It was leaves blowing around. There were like these tiny little ones, so it just sounded funny. Anyways, that is what I'm up to today. And then maybe the girls and I will get some coffee or something afterwards before Alexa and I go back to her place. And actually, it'll be my first time seeing her new place, which is crazy 'cause we always try to meet... Either we'll meet at Disneyland, or we meet at the Rose Bowl, or we meet somewhere else. And I actually haven't seen her place and she still hasn't even seen mine, that's crazy. I'm excited to see Salem and Autumn, her kitties, and just get to hang out and have some friend time today. So, let's do it. All right, just made it to the Goodwill bins. We are gonna head inside. I filmed my intro, the lighting was ass, whatever, what's new? I brought some gloves, I brought my reusable bags. I'm gonna put my debit card in my pocket and then I'm gonna film on my phone because they are very, very particular about people filming with cameras, so let's see what happens. Let's do it. Maybe we'll get kicked out again today, who knows? I can't remember if I mentioned that, but we definitely got asked to leave here once before for filming, but we've since gotten a contact at Goodwill, so I think we'll be okay. All right, let's do it. Look who I found. - Hi. - It's my Karina. We just had a very successful Goodwill bins trip. It was so much fun. And we were just saying - Yeah. we wanna do it more often too. - And we didn't even get yelled at you guys. You were a ride or die for me in there. You were like, "Let me get your thumbnail. Let me get you this footage.  Here, do you want this?" I was like, Karina! Everyone needs a Karina in their life honestly, she's amazing. We're just waiting for Alexa, she had to go back and get another sweater, and then I think we're gonna do a quick little coffee date situation maybe. Oh, yay. Got your things. Did you go back and get the sweater? - [Alexa] Yeah. - And look who else I got! - Hi. - Yay, okay, let's do it. - I know, I was like, "What is that, band?" 'Cause that's a class, right? - It's just like at Disneyland. She's working with the camera - Yeah, I was just saying. and were dancing in the background, not being of any help. - Thanks. - So, we're actually in downtown Santa Ana, which maybe I've been here one time with my friend years ago, but we found this coffee shop on Google called Coffee Muse, so we'll see if it's good or not. All right, cheers. Let's test it out. Oh, delicious. Love it. So happy. Okay, bye. - Bye. - Bye. I've actually been at Alexa's house for a couple hours now but we've been catching up with Jasmin, which was so lovely, so much fun. And now I have to head back because I have to beat traffic, because the last time I was on this side of town, it took me two and a half hours to get home, so I need to head back. But you will see us together again very soon. - Very soon. - She's gonna come visit me. We're gonna go thrifting, do all the things. But we are gonna head back to LA and we will catch up when we get there. Goodbye to my friend. - Bye. - Oh, I'll see her soon. Oh my God, look what I just came home to. Are you joking? You are so sweet. I love you. Cutest girl in the whole world. You're so cute. Good morning, it is the next day. I am filming some main channel videos and I realized, "Oh yeah, I forgot I started a vlog yesterday." I just finished filming the haul and the try ons for the thrifting video that I filmed yesterday, which is what you saw, or that's what I was doing when you saw that stuff. And I just changed, put on a little red lip, 'cause why not? This is Nars Dragon Girl. I freaking love this lipstick. Sierra and I actually got this lipstick when we did our Taylor Swift videos back at the end of 2021 because we heard that it was the lipstick that Taylor used to wear, or currently wears, or whatever. And we got the, I don't know, it's not a liquid lipstick but it has a little doe foot applicator and it makes it so easy 'cause it's really thin and you can sort of use it as a lip liner. Anyways, kind of of iconic. I don't know if you heard that, there was almost a car accident. Ms. Layla's sleeping on the ground. As per usual, she actually has a vet appointment tomorrow. She hasn't been feeling very well. She's had some tummy stuff going on and some eye allergies. She has to get her blood retested, et cetera, et cetera. She's at the vet all the time. She's an old lady with health issues. Anyways. So we are going to head into my office, film video number two of three for the day, and the third one is actually a branded video. And also I have to film or I have to shoot a photo for that, as well as some Instagram stories, so I'm gonna be busy for the next few hours. I actually might not end up getting it all done. This door, I swear. My God. There we go. Okay, we're good. Actually, I might not get all of this done because I have an appointment at three o'clock to see somebody who I'm potentially going to get hair extensions from. I sort of talked about this in the last video and I guess I'll show a little bit of it now. Step into my office, why don't you. So, okay, this is what my hair looks like. Looks totally fine, nothing wrong with it at all. But over the last couple of years, I've made quite a few changes to my hair and my hair has sort of fallen victim to those choices, if you will. And I went really closely together, I think I went a month apart, and it just fried the front parts of my hair off. So anyways, I'm just going to look into getting extensions, not because I want my hair to be longer, but just 'cause I want this area in here to be a little bit more filled in, if that makes sense. And I have sort of little, mini side bangs at the moment, so that's fine, but I just want a little bit more fullness and volume in the front. So I don't know if I'm actually gonna commit to it but I am gonna go talk to a professional, get a consultation, see what they're able to do for me, what it's gonna look like, all that kind of stuff, so I'll give you a rundown when I'm done later today. But yeah, that's sort of what's on the agenda. Do I have anything this afternoon besides that? I don't think so. It's a really busy week for me. And actually, the reason I'm starting this vlog now as opposed to earlier this morning, is because I just get so easily overwhelmed by a big to-do list, I start crumbling. I'm forgetting things, I'm dropping the ball everywhere, I'm missing meetings, I'm forgetting to text people back. I just get a lot more over stimulated and overwhelmed than the average person, I would say. But I'm feeling much better now, now that I'm in the act of filming and getting things done. And I redid my little DIY lash extensions this morning, I tanned, I'm getting some work done, so it feels pretty good. I also started doing a Pilates workout this morning and literally stopped halfway through. I was just like, "This isn't for me, it's not for me," so we'll try again tomorrow. But anyways, okay. I'm gonna go film the rest of this stuff and then we'll catch up in a bit. All right, it is a few hours later and I did not finish everything I wanted to do, but I'm almost there. I'd say probably three quarters of the way done with my work, so I don't know if I'm gonna finish when I get back. It depends on how long it takes and also the lighting situation. But I am just getting dressed in some comfy clothes and then I'm gonna head in the car and go to this new salon and we're gonna see about this hair. So, here's what I'm wearing. Okay, here is the fit. It is so dark in here, oh my goodness. I need to throw out this trash right here, so we're gonna ignore that. I just literally threw this on in two seconds. This is a workout top from Old Navy. I have the white one that I wore in the last log or a couple flags ago when I went to Laguna with Sierra. And it was so comfy that I just threw it on. And then I have these pants, these are actually new. I got these on Eloquii. Eloquii does really good sales sometimes, so I got these majorly, majorly discounted. And these are the sporty spice pants of my dreams, but plus size. I got them in a 14, I think, or an XL, I don't know, but they're really, really comfy. And then I have on my Nike Dunks that I got on Poshmark. Okay, let's do this. (soft music) - [Drew] Have fun. - Thanks. - [Drew] (indistinct) - Okay, thanks. Off to my first day of school. - [Drew] Make lots of friends. - Good morning from the car again, this time we're back in my car. I was driving Drew's car for a few days. It's just how we park, it depends. We take each other's cars, but I am up and at 'em. It is 7:52 AM and I am on my way to an 8:30 AM cycling class. This is actually my first workout class I've done by myself in probably a decade, I wanna say. It's been a long time, and I'm scared, but it's gonna be really fun. I'm really excited. This cycling place seems really cool and I'm gonna talk all about it in my 30 days of exercise video that's gonna go up on my main channel in a little bit, a couple weeks. But yeah, it's been really busy. Yesterday we had to bring Layla to the vet. I had a bunch of deadlines after filming. Just needed to get a bunch of stuff done, I actually finished up some of that early this morning, which wasn't fun, but it's okay, we got it done. Tonight we're having a date night, which we have really, really, really really been bad at lately, so we're trying to schedule weekly date nights. And tonight is no exception. We're actually going to the same place that I went with Allison last week because I enjoyed it so much, and Drew and I have never been there together so we were like, "Let's go." So, that'll be really fun. And I'm waiting to hear for the results of Layla's blood work today, which is stressful, but it should be all right. And also she needs to now see an ophthalmologist. My poor girl. She's getting so old but there is literally nothing I will not do, and no specialist I will not take her to in order to ensure that she just has the longest, best life possible. But yeah, what a mess. I don't even know the last thing that I filmed. I think it was when I was at my extensions consultation and that appointment is for next week. So we're going forward with it, we're doing it. I'm so excited. It's not gonna be that big of a difference. I'm not getting like longer hair, just fuller while my hair is healing and stuff from all the damage of going blonde twice in way too close at a time period last year. So anyways, I'm blabbing. We are gonna head to this cycling class, maybe hit myself a smoothie afterwards or something, and then have a good, productive day. I'm hoping that by going to this workout class in the morning, I will feel nice, and accomplished, and strong. I could come back to this clip crying though, so who knows? We'll see. Okay, besties. I just did a whole thing for my main channel video obviously, but finished my spin class. Wow. I feel great and I certainly would be in shape if I kept going to that, and so I might have to, we'll see. But my chest feels very, I don't know how to explain it. I had a doctor once tell me that what I explained to him when I exercise really intensely, my breathing hitches, it's like (breathing hitches), if that makes sense. And I had a doctor say one time that it sounded like exercise asthma, so I don't know if that's actually a thing. And if it is, then I should probably get an inhaler 'cause anytime I do super intense cardio, I genuinely can't breathe. It feels like my lungs are gonna explode. And I know that when you do cardiovascular stuff your lungs feel tight, your heart, you feel it in your chest, but it hurts right now, and I don't know if that's supposed to be that way. But anyways, I just finished my workout, clearly. I'm gonna look and see if there's anywhere near here that has smoothies 'cause I am just a post-workout smoothie kind of gal. One thing I will say about this cycling class that I went to is they are extremely communicative. I've gotten three emails, two calls, a voicemail, about four texts in the course of 10 days. It's a lot, but anyways. Right. I think there's actually somewhere I can walk. Perfect. Earthbar. I think it's inside of a building. Oh, it's inside of Equinox. Am I allowed to go in there? Okay, anyways, just wanted to let you know that I did it and I'm fucking proud of myself. Oh, there goes my instructor. Thank you. Bye. You kicked my ass. You're amazing. Okay, let's go get a smoothie. It's not a want, it's a need. I'm not gonna lie to you besties, the smoothie that I make at home is way, way better. But I figured while I'm out and I have a three hour free parking spot, I might as well walk down to the beach. I'm literally right next to the beach. This is part of the reason why I moved here. So I'm gonna walk down to the beach, I'm gonna sit my ass in the sand, I'm gonna enjoy my smoothie. Get some good vitamin D, good for my menty health, if you will. And like, ugh, this is my dream life. I'm literally living my dream life. I'm so happy. Does anyone remember this meme from a while ago where it's like the two sisters, the older one that's goth and the younger one, or whatever it is. This is basically The 10 Things I Hate About You sisters in house form. I'm obsessed with these houses. I love them.