Day 1 Today is the day of my long-awaited cruise trip. This time I will be on board the Royal Caribbean's Anthem of the Seas. It will depart from Singapore's Marina Bay Cruise Center and head for Penang, Malaysia, on a 3night 4days cruise. I'm so exited...! When you arrive at the port, you will leave large luggage such as suitcases before check-in. Your luggage will be carried to the front of your room later. You can bring a carry-on case on your own. I waited for while after checked in You can specify your check-in time up to 45 days before your trip, so I recommend you to specify your check-in time early. The earlier you arrive, you can spend on the ship more. I didn't research it properly. So I realized a week before the trip. That's why my check in time was at 12:00. I checked in at the port at 12:00 and boarded the ship around 1:00 pm. Before boarding the ship, I handed my passport to the staff here. The passport was returned before disembarking in Penang on the second day. Let's on board the ship! First, we took an emergency lecture at a designated location. The ceiling is high and spacious... I can't believe this is inside a ship! After that, we headed to the kids space called Adventure Ocean to register. My son hasn't taken off his diaper yet, so the staff told us the playroom is different from his sister we didn't use it this time. still have to wait until the room is ready. I have time to look around the ship. I'm gladthe rain has stopped! This is kids area. There is also an indoor pool. It was nice to be able to use the pool even when it was raining or sunny and too hot. The room is ready! This time I will be staying in a room with a balcony on the 11th floor. This room key has become necessary in many situations such as renting a towel at pool or buying drink wow! There are 1 bed and 1 sofa bed, spacious enough for 2 adults and 2 children (3 and 5 years old) Nice! Looking down from the balcony, the scenery is like this: There are a pot and two cups, a small refrigerator, and these 4 bottles of water are free (from after these 4 bottles, you have to pay). There are child's bands on the bed. These are essential. The closet has enough hangers for a family of four. There were another closet, and there is a security box inside. Let's have a look the bathroom. There was a soap but no toothbrush, so be sure to bring your own. There is also body soap in the shower room. After put our luggage, we went to the pool. My kids enjoyed a lot at kids area rolling... After playing a lot, we went to have dinner We made a reservation for dinner from 5:00pm. Where is our table...? nice view! I'm so happy Thank you ♥️ The adult menu is like this the appetizers, main dishes, and desserts change every day. The kids menu has 2 appetizers and desserts, and about 3 choices for the main, and the menu was the same for all 3 days of the trip. The same person was in charge of our table throughout the cruise. You can watch a show every night on the cruise. This day's show was about hero my kids were very interested. After the show, we took a walk on the rooftop Royal Caribbean has animals on the each ships. There were pandas on the ship. you can do skydiving Also surfing too. He's a bit scared because we can see the bottom. Until when will he hold my hand like this? Breakfast was at the same venue as last night But there are no fixed seats in the morning. I like buffet as well but that day we decided to come here. After the breakfast, went to pool we passed another company's cruise ship. I want to ride another cruise ship someday. We arrive at Penang. The ship will be anchored from 3:00pm to 11:00pm. Thus time, we were just relax on the ship. After exercising at pool, went to restaurant I felt like I just keep eating... After taking a rest in my room, we walked around the ship before dinner. My daughter told me that there was a beautiful sunset through the screen, it's not so nice but it was very beautiful. My son believes the door will open if he say "open sesame"😂♡ robots will make a cocktail for you we went to Wonderland to have dinner. There were a lot of exciting features not only for children but also for adults. We had good time. If you wet your brush with water and trace paper, the menu will come out. In the end, we couldn't decide which one to go for, so we ordered the waiter's recommendation. There's also a kids menu Friendly staff ^^ Today's show is magic. She was scary, but can't take her eyes off returned to my room, the cleaner had made a rabbit by a towel. Unfortunately, it rained on the Unfortunately it was rain on the third day. We went to buffet for this morning's breakfast we met the waiter who was in charge of dinner yesterday. He made a flower bracelets from napkin. She looks happy. After breakfast, we participated in the kids activities. Do decorate cupcakes. First, they made roses and frogs for decoration Focusing... You made nice one! lunch at the stern of the ship, which was a comfortable place with a sense of openness. Last dinner. After dinner, we watched the last show and packed luggage. If you take your luggage out in front of your room by the designated time, you won't have to carry it yourself the next morning. On the last day, there were a lot of people in the elevator, so I recommend to prepare your luggage before the checked out day. Day 4 Time flies! Disembarkation was very smooth and we left our room before 8am and took a taxi from the port around 8:30. Traveling with children can be tiring just transport, but on a cruise you can enjoy a variety of shows and activities while you're on the traveling and when you get tired, you can take a quick break in your room. It was really good.