[BEEP BEEP] Good morning Commander Scooby, today is day 512 of my daily vlogs. Hope you're feeling as fine as I am today. It's gonna be a good one. Give me a like if you like having a good day and go check out my day 512 merch over on CafePress, it's only $35 a shirt. It's a steal. Let's go see what Joey's doing. Hey, Joey. What are you doing? Where did you get that camera? I took your last one. I have more than one. You don't have any money... That's good. I spend it all on cameras. I'm not in it for the cash, just for the fame. Take that haters. Why are you calling them that? I only have one fan... it's mostly haters. So you're going to stop? Well I can't disappoint my fan, can I? Love you guy. [mouth click] So last week I asked for suggestions on what to do this week, and you guys all had some cool ideas like stick your head in a blender, drive off a cliff, drive off a cliff headfirst into a blender. Shout out to blenders. But my favorite was a comment from Commander Scooby that said don't forget to eat lunch again today Which gave me a great idea! Cooking videos! [swishes and fast movement] I need to borrow your sandwich. What? Hey everybody, this is a great food hack that I learned from my friend Joey. It's perfect for an easy and portable lunch and all you need is two slices of bread and some other stuff. As you can see we've already got one started right here. Why are you doing this? Everybody knows how to make a sandwich. Everybody knew what would happen if you shoved a bunch of cinnamon in your face too. But there's still a million videos about that... by the way, comment down below if you'd like to see Joey take on the cinnamon challenge next we.. What? No, no, no... I'm done, give me my sandwich. Mail Time! Got another one of these today. That's basically the same as always, but I really appreciate Costco hooking me up. Thanks guys. This one's got a high quality gloss finish as usual. Pretty good photography, I could personally do without quite so many ads. Stop reviewing the catalogs. It's a brand deal. They send those to everybody. Sponsorships are really important to independent creators like myself, it allows us to keep making great content for you guys every single day. Most of the things you're doing aren't even current YouTube trends. You're too predictable. Change it up, alright? You'd be more unique. You're gonna have one fan forever. (Ha, get pranked) Kyle: Suprise Cinnamon Challeeeeenge!! So today was pretty crazy, got kicked out of my apartment again. Joey will come around by midnight though, always does like 2:00 a.m. at the latest. But it's the job, you know? Got to keep making content to keep people happy. Hey! I told you not to film here. Where'd you get that camera? I thought I took the last one! I'm a Youtuber. I can do what I want. Haters can't keep me down. Shout out to my fan, doing this all for you, buddy. Be sure to support me on Patreon.